# Synergy between Knowledge Graphs & Large Language Models (LLMs)
**LLMs** are typically black-box models, which often fall short of capturing and accessing factual knowledge. On the other hand, Knowledge Graphs (KGs) are structured knowledge models that explicitly store rich factual knowledge. KGs can enhance LLMs by providing external knowledge for inference and interpretability. Ontologies based KGs provide a uniform and consistent understanding of data, a Shared Semantic Layer. When the LLMs need to access data then they can connect to the semantic meaning provided by the ontology as part of KGs. In summary, Knowledge Graphs can place guardrails around the LLMs, thus allowing organizations to harness the capabilities of LLMs within the framework of a safely controlled ontological structure.

**Knowledge Graphs** are difficult to construct and evolving by nature, which challenges the existing methods in KGs to generate new facts and represent unseen knowledge. Traditionally, knowledge graph construction has been a manual, time-consuming process. Overall, knowledge graph construction is quite a daunting endeavor for businesses.

However, recent advancements in AI and Machine Learning techniques, specifically Large Language Models (LLMs), have opened up exciting opportunities to automate and enrich this process. The ability of LLMs to generate and extend ontologies is a game-changer. Although one still needs a “human-in-the-loop,” LLMs do demonstrate surprising effectiveness. Therefore, it is complementary to unify LLMs and KGs together and simultaneously leverage their advantages.

In summary, the collaborative partnership between LLMs and ontologies is quite interesting for possibly establishing a reinforcing feedback loop of continuous improvement. As LLMs help generate better ontologies faster and more dynamically, the ontologies, in turn, can elevate the performance of LLMs by offering a more comprehensive context of the data and text they analyze.