# Exphormer - Graph Transformer
[Exphormer: Google makes an important algorithmic step towards efficient graph transformers](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7155864887531839489/)<br>

Great to see progress on arbitrary graph data structure support for NN based deep learning, beyond current GNNs. As I mentioned in my earlier post that current neural networks based deep learning is suitable strictly for simple fixed size input datasets (grid-graph/images, linear-sequential-graph/audio & text/language) only.

In order to provide support for Neural-Network based predictive analytics capabilities (no feature engineering) in a typical multi-tables relational data stores (DBMSs) enterprise applications environment, support for arbitrary graph data structure is a must. This is where the core of any enterprise mission critical data lives. No denying the fact that current deep learning (LLMs etc.) has definitely enabled support for unstructured data at par with structured data. But support for multi-tables structured data in the NN environment is utmost important as mentioned earlier.

I do want to mention that there is support for structured single tabular dataset as input in the traditional ML landscape (i.e. XGBoost) but it is strictly restricted to single table as input dataset. Enterprise environment is never a single table, it always consists of multiple tables connected to each other. In order to use traditional ML (XGBoost for example), one has to go through massive feature engineering effort in order to merge multiple tables into one. This way, one ends up losing all the original domain knowledge of structured relations in the original DBMSs. This is where GNNs & Graph-Transformer like architectures come to the rescue and use the existing multi-tables relationship as graph input dataset for enabling deep-learning predictive analytics capabilities, with no need for feature engineering at all (similar to what LLMs do).

Most importantly, just like all other important AI innovations, the implementation of Exphormer is now available on GitHub as open source MIT license. Long live open source!!